Good morning. My name is Josie Duffy and I think I speak for all of us when I say today feels, well, weird. It sounds cliché, but it seems like just last week it was orientation and I was in Memorial Hall listening to Dean Minow. I remember listening to her read out the amazing accomplishments of our incoming class. I remember feeling completely under accomplished and under prepared. I also remember a moment of unparalleled comedic timing, when, as the Dean read out snippets of your amazing resumes, I looked down and realized I was wearing my sweater inside out. I then remember imagining what I would tell my parents when the admissions office inevitably cornered me and told me they had made a mistake.That was the first of a number of moments filled with deep feelings of inadequacy. There was the first day of class, for example. Section six will recall when Professor Rosenberg burst through the door ten minutes early, quickly began pacing across the room and introduced our law school experience with just a few unceremonious words: “OK. Let’s get to work.” He picked up his seating chart. I was terrified. I thought, “Ok. If he cold calls me first, I’ll get up, walk out of the door, and catch the bus home. To Georgia.”He didn’t call on me. And it turns out that he wasn’t nearly as scary as he seemed. By the end of the fall I found him downright endearing. I even tried to hug him once, although he very politely rebuffed me. And some of those people that Dean Minow talked about, the people who had cured diseases and ruled small countries, some of them ended up being my friends.But, OK. That’s not my point today. Today I’d like to remember a different moment from that day in Memorial Hall, the moment when Dean Minow said,  “We searched the world for you.” I remember so clearly being thrilled and overwhelmed by the sheer idea that this place would search for me.But the reality is that we were not that hard to find. That we were even in Dean Minow’s landscape at all speaks to how blessed, how remarkably lucky, we are. I don’t mean to say that we didn’t work hard to get here – we did, all of us. But if there’s anything I know from law school, it’s that good luck and hard work are not mutually exclusive.So here’s the part in the graduation remarks when I talk about that responsibility. I have to say it now while you guys are forced to listen, before you all go off and get awesome jobs and I have to contact your secretary to get on your schedule.The law is noble, but it is not perfect. It is good, but it is not always just. Our laws are made by people like you and me, not by gods. My hope for us as lawyers is, of course, that we listen to the law. But I hope we also pause to listen to our brain and our gut. I hope we acknowledge when something makes us uneasy, that we speak up when something feels wrong. In law school, they teach you to think like a lawyer. But I hope we don’t forget to also think like human beings.I hope that we allow ourselves to hold fast in what we believe, but that we have the dignity and humility to change our minds. That we remember that often experience is more valuable than eloquence. That we do not always equate logic with strength, that we do not always equate emotion with weakness. We live in a time where information is so readily accessible, where things go from novel to tired to cliché in a split second. I fear that irony is easier than earnestness for us, that skepticism is easier than faith. I hope that we retain that inner current of idealism that will sometimes get us called naïve or unrealistic.And my hope for us is that, when we confront legal problems, we don’t just think about the law. The law, after all, is often binary. I don’t want us to be binary. I hope that we recognize that part of beauty is in nuance, in complication – that sometimes there may be two answers or no answers. That fairness does not have to exclude efficiency. That good things have bad sides, that good people make bad mistakes, that good rules can have bad results, that it’s not as simple as good and evil, right or wrong, or right or left.And THAT’S what’s amazing about life. It’s not simple. The grace is in the gray area.If you ever need to feel unimportant, remember the gabillion people who are living or have lived throughout history. Superlatives won’t sustain you. If you narrow your focus to being the best, the most, or the first you will never knock the feeling that at some point, someone did or could have or will do it better.I don’t know about you all, but a lot has happened for me over the past three years. For one, I now own snow boots. I also went through a period where I swore law school wasn’t for me. At one point, in a moment of what the law calls temporary insanity, I called my father and tried to break that news. I said, “I’m not going to be a lawyer! I’m going to be a writer instead!” There was silence. There was a sigh. “Josie,” he said. “How many semesters of tuition did you have to pay to figure that out?”Turns out I was wrong. After all, being a lawyer can augment who I am, not define it. And so my hope for us is that we choose to not just be lawyers. My hope for us is that we choose to be fighters, peacemakers, preachers and engineers. That we choose to be artists, reimagining how things could be. That we choose to be architects who create, that we choose to be workers that build. That we choose to be writers.And I hope that we think about all those people that don’t have the opportunity we do. I mean really think about them. Harvard is a place of privilege, and the truth is that the more we eat cake the harder it is to remember the taste of bread.To put it simply, there is no such thing as an even playing field. We are 500 some odd people of the 7 billion people in the world. And at this very moment, there are people just as smart as us or smarter all over this planet who have not been so lucky. People who do not have the resources, the opportunity, the freedom. Others who do not have the right to go to school because of their gender or class or citizenship. Even others who are fighting wars, working in factories, or tilling land. They live far away, but also closer than we probably realize. And they are trying to figure out how to just live in this world, much less change it.Graduating from this place means that people are going to give us a terrifying amount of power. I really hope each of us takes that power as opportunity, opportunity for us to help a person, or a neighborhood, or a country. That means not helping out just once a year. And not just donating money.But when we help out we must also watch out – help has a way of veering into patronization if you’re not careful.The past few years have been about us. Our grades, our clerkships, our firm offers, our laments over not enough sushi in the Hark. But at the end of the day, the legal profession is not about us at all. So don’t let yourself get tired. Don’t let yourself get bitter, don’t wake up one day and realize you let yourself get too hard. Access your reservoirs of compassion.The funny part about me standing up here at all is that I’m 26, so spoiler alert: I know pretty much nothing. But I believe plenty of things, and I believe in the fight. I believe in what Dr. King called creative extremism. So today I wanted to ask all of you to fight long and hard for what you believe in.So many people fought for me to get this degree and I think of them today. I think of my great grandfather. He graduated from college in 1926 and wanted to go to law school, but he couldn’t find one that would accept a black man. I think of my grandmother, who is here. As a black girl in Texas in the 1930s she publicly campaigned against the poll tax. It wasn’t safe and it wasn’t easy, but it was right. I think about my mother, who balanced hard work and hard mothering with deep reserves of wisdom and humor and, most notably, patience. And I think of my father. As a child I would sit on his lap as he talked about South Central and South Africa, about public education, and public housing. He’d talk about problems and then about solutions. And ever since I can remember, he told me to always ask myself what I could do to change things, too.How great is it that we got a degree that will let us make things better? I hope I never forget to do that. I hope you all don’t, either.And, on a personal note, from me to all 500 of you – thank you all for everything. I’m proud to know all of you. Thank you for the friendship and the classroom arguments and the laughter and the Facebook arguments. And, although I’ve spent the last three years trying not to be Elle Woods, thank you for giving me the chance to channel her today. And just so you know – under this gown, I’m wearing my sweater inside out.I told myself I wouldn’t quote anyone in this speech, but I also told myself I wouldn’t eat out of the tunnel vending machines after 1L year, so I’m going to go ahead and end by quoting two men who, in their time, have spouted some wisdom. The first is Young Jeezy. If you don’t know who Young Jeezy is, he’s either a rapper or a Supreme Court Justice, I can’t remember which. He said “You only get one life, there's no sequel.” The second quote is from Professor Rosenberg, that first day of class. “Ok.” He said. “Let’s get to work.”So, let’s make it count, yall. Congratulations.My fellow students, we only arrived here four short years ago, and now it's already time to leave. How did it all go so fast? It seems like only yesterday that we were skinny little freshmen fighting with the locks on our lockers, trying to figure out where our next class was, and looking generally clueless to all the upper classmen. Now we are the upperclassmen, the seniors who stand here ready to graduate and move forward in the world. Yet at this seminal moment, we can't help looking back.How do we measure the time we've spent in high school? In the beginning, we measured it in class periods, counting down the day to eventual freedom. As the days and weeks passed, we measured it in semesters, and later in years as we moved from being those clueless freshmen, to becoming sophisticated sophomores who thought they had it all figured out. By the time we reached our junior year, we were confident that we were prepared to take over for the graduating seniors, and we couldn't wait to "rule the school."And now here we stand. Our rule is over, and it's up to the next class to step into our shoes and take over. I know that as I look out at all of you, I will measure my time here in a much different way. I will measure it in all the friendships I've enjoyed these last four years. Some were pretty casual and others were much closer, but I'll remember each one fondly, as I'm sure you all will, too. And when many of our high school memories begin to fade, that's how we'll ultimately measure the time we spent here, not in periods or semesters or years, but in the friendships that we made and the times we shared together.Congratulations my fellow graduates of the class of (Insert year). Wherever we go and whatever we do, may we always be friends when we meet again.We stand here today on the precipice of the future. It's not a distant reality anymore. It begins here. It begins today.We began high school as children, but we're leaving here as adults. We've completed a basic education that will serve as the platform we use to launch ourselves into our futures. Some of us will go on to college, others will go straight into the work force, but each of us will travel our own path.No matter where we go or what we do, there are challenges ahead of us. What I'm asking from each of you, and from myself, is to meet those challenges straight on with your head held high and your heart wide open. It's not enough to simply try to get by in life. That doesn't move the world forward. You must try to excel in everything you do; strive for excellence in every task, large or small.Although it may not be easy to see, every accomplishment you achieve is added to the world's accomplishments. Your individual successes benefit society as a whole because when you succeed, you lighten the burden on your fellow man. When you succeed, you are in a position to give rather than take.Imagine if every individual lived up to his or her own potential. Think about how amazing that would be, and how much better off the world would be. Now imagine if just half of those individuals lived up to their potential. The world would still be an awesome place. If even 1/4 of those individuals worked to make their lives successful, they could still make some amazing contributions to society.Well, we may not have the power to inspire the entire world to strive for success, but we do have the power to try to achieve it for ourselves. My challenge to each of you, and to myself, is to do all that you can do to reach your full potential. If each of the (Insert number) students in this graduating class is able to do that, just imagine the effect that would have. The future is truly in our hands, so let's make the most of it.Thank you.I'd like to welcome everyone to this solemn and joyous occasion.It has been a long four years, but here we are, ready to graduate. We worked hard to get to this point, but we didn't do it by ourselves. We owe a huge debt of gratitude to the following people.To our teachers, thank you for so unselfishly sharing you time, talent and knowledge with us. Yes, we know it was your job to do it, but what you did for us went beyond the call of duty. You took the time to explain assignments, sometimes repeatedly because we weren't paying attention. You allowed us to come to your classroom after school for extra help when you could have gone home to spend time with your family. You put in the effort to make lessons more interesting so we wouldn't just tune out. You demanded excellence from us whether or not we wanted to give it. You set the bar high and challenged us to live up to it.Graduate with loving parentsTo our parents, thank you for supporting us in more ways than it's possible to count. You dragged us out of bed each morning, made sure we were fed and clothed for school. You herded us out the door to the bus stop or drove us to school yourselves. You helped us with homework, paid our class fees, and listened to our complaints. You came to our plays, attended our sporting events, and chaperoned our dances. You commiserated over our daily dramas, but you tried to give us enough space to learn how to work things out for ourselves. These are just a few of the thousands of ways you've supported us on our journey.To our coaches and advisors, thank you for making school about more than just classwork. Through sports, we learned how to power on through adversity and give it our best effort, win or lose. We learned the importance of discipline and good sportsmanship. Through other activities like participating in clubs, school plays and service projects, we learned how to work closely with others to achieve a common goal, and we had a lot of fun doing it.To our custodial staff and lunchroom attendants, thank you for keeping our school clean and safe. You know better than anyone else what slobs we've been. You actually deserve some kind of medal.To our principal, vice principal and all the office staff, thank you for keeping things running smoothly so our teachers could concentrate on us. We're better off for it.To our guidance counselors, thank you for listening and trying to keep us on the right track for graduation. Without your help, some of us might not be graduating today.As you can see, behind each graduate there must have been at least a dozen people providing support in at least a dozen ways. The best way we graduates can show our gratitude is to make the most of the opportunity we've been given, and go forward into the world with the intention of making it a better place for the generations that follow us. We'll pay that debt of gratitude forward.Thank you.My fellow parents; graduates; and those who have ever had parents or who have ever graduated:I think that it’s a good thing that some Hallmark planner somewhere decided that Father’s Day, not Mother’s Day, should be the holiday closest to graduations.If Mother’s Day coincided, then it would be an emotional burden too ginormous to bear, and it would probably lead to some sort of social collapse — if not an economic boon for tissues.Invoking fathers, theoretically the more stoic parental units, is a smart move. (Although on plenty of graduation occasions I’ve enjoyed watching grown men cry.) The well-worn marketing expression, “Dads and Grads,” helps us remember that behind all graduates lurk parents who are moving on to the next age and phase, too.Speaking of Hallmark — a brand where sentimental word choice is their business — I’d like to call in one of their consultants to my kids’ school, pronto.There they call graduation “culmination,” which is like a swift kick to the emotional balls. Graduation is something that feels gentle and gradual — a mere conferring of diplomas.Culmination sounds a little bit dirty and a lot bit final.I have no personal recollection of my graduation or culmination from what we used to call junior high school. In fact, the only thing I remember of those years was spending my free time drowning my pubescent pain in Double Stuf Oreos and General Hospital, slathered in Noxzema and praying my Billy Dee Williams mustache and pimply forehead would miraculously dissipate in time for high school.But times have certainly changed, and today we parents work our asses off, desperately trying to shape our children’s perceptions of their world. We push hard so that our kids’ early school years are memorable not for the journey from the tedium of early childhood development through adolescent angst, but primarily for their amazing growth and achievements. By the time they are ready to move on to high school, the impulse to focus solely on the individual accomplishments of one’s precious babies is heightened by hormonal challenges — theirs and ours alike.The idea that there is no happier, snappier time in life than childhood is a total sham, by the way. Now more than ever I think it’s freakin’ hard to shed your girlhood or boyhood skin and take those first few steps towards independence and adulthood.In a world where your every move is immortalized and Big Brother is always watching — thanks to everything from the internet to the NSA — messages like always be pretty, data matters and springs eternal, and above all, don’t fuck up, come through loud and clear, beginning at birth. (Seriously, check out the virtual yearbook that is Facebook, and you’ll know I’m right.)Toward this end, I offer you these humble words of advice from some Bitch’in Facebook friends and me as your children graduate, culminate, or in any way, shape, or form move on:- When you watch your kid develop and grow, inevitably there will be some rough patches. Like sandpaper, painful experiences slough off a layer, and sometimes that layer is innocence, which is why it’s so hard to watch. But if you remember your own childhood and adolescence, you’ll realize that those sandpapery experiences are exactly what shaped you into the kick ass person you are today.- Buy your graduate something from Tiffany, and then shove them out of the nest. (Thank you, Jessica Gottlieb!)- They say time flies when you’re having fun. It’s a good expression — so when you feel like your kids are growing up too fast, just flip the switch and focus on having fun. With them, and as much as possible.- Get a job. (Note: Parents, this means you, NOT your kids!)- Good drugs for you, not the graduate!- If you haven’t already, reconnect w/ yourself & the interests you had before you were a parent…or find new ones. (To that and the piece of advice preceding this one, I’ll add preferably legal. After all, you’re still a role model.)While these are all great pieces of advice, when parenting is a verb, graduation becomes a deeply reflective time that leaves many of us wondering if we did everything — well, anything — right all these years.My tears started flowing days in the weeks leading up to my son’s graduation. (Verizon, I’m talking to you sadistic mothertruckers who put a time lapse ad into heavy rotation that features the :30 second maturing of a redheaded kid from infant to college boy!  Do you really hate me as much as Sprint does?)Then there was the culmination ceremony itself, after which when we came home bursting with pride, but also with the looming sense that everything had changed.To underscore the emptiness, my son was leaving the next morning at the crack of dawn for a final class trip to Washington D.C. Packing became an all-afternoon activity where we cleared his drawers and closet of all he’d outgrown. And there was a lot of stuff.I found myself carefully folding the school t-shirts, baseball uniforms, and other sentimental items of clothing that I’ll probably never look at again. (Well, at least not until he leaves for college when I’m sure I’ll spend hours being a freak and smelling his clothes when I miss him most.)The next morning he was gone.And then, I got a beautiful graduation gift. Despite the fact I had gone over everything he had in his suitcase about a thousand times and emphasized that he was traveling light to make it easy to stow his luggage in the overhead bin, I got the following text:“Is the blue bag being checked or is it carry on”And then it was clear: parents, we may graduate, but we never truly culminate. (I know, still sounds dirty but you know what I mean!)So if you see me running through an airport, screaming for them to hold the plane, my kid doesn’t have the credit card necessary to check a bag, just know that I’m doing what any other graduation speaker would do: offering you a poignant reminder that we’re all enrolled in a life class that has no ending — only new beginnings.
To begin something new, you must sacrifice something old. To enter the real world, you must graduate your childhood.

A childhood is the delicate phase of every adolescent's life where they must mature into their own person, with their own responsibilities. Although every individual will eventually bloom with their own personality, morals, and perspectives, the education and values we learn and see along the way add to the fingers that mold. We begin when we are born, and are taken in by strangers. These priceless people show us love, and just how strong attachments can be. Family ties snare us in their loving webs and become the support network to catch us throughout our youthful falls. They are our first real pictures of people, and their actions and emotions immediately become examples.

Throughout our lives we will always find in ourselves patterns of the men and women that raised us. Next, when we are finally able to branch our innocent eyes onto larger horizons, we meet our peers, who will become our precious friends. They will hold our hands on our first days of new adventures, and wipe our tears when our delicate worlds are rocked. Some will be our friends of the moment, and some will stand by our sides, on our sports teams, on our graduations, at our weddings, and during our retirements.

While our parents help and support us while growing, our friends will grow with us. These valuable attachments are cherished and needed, and their emotional embrace will always comfort us. With these friends we enter the world of education, our basis to survive in the outside world.

We meet the teachers who will give us the instruments to join the orchestra of the world. We love them, admire them, respect them, and above all, learn from them. Forever into our future we will tell stories and reminisce of the memorable teachers and classrooms that taught us so diligently. They teach us the information to decode life, and be able to support ourselves. We excel in the subjects we love, and take this excellence into our future careers.

We valiantly struggle to do our best, and pass within the necessary limits. Some breezed by on the wings of their genius while some studied day and night to keep up with our peers. Whichever of these you were, you worked hard enough to make it here. We are watched on by these people who have seen us this far, and will be there for us farther. We will lose some of these people through distance, illness, and living our own lives. However, we will always remember the different keys you used to open our souls to the people we became.

To our families and those who raised us, thank you for taking us in and giving us a place to grow up in. To our friends and peers, thank you for joining us in the fight for life, and making the effort enjoyable and fulfilled. To our teachers and staff, thank you for teaching us all the information to take into our next phase of life so patiently and whole-heartedly.

Some of us will pursue to college, while others join the competitive workforce bright and young. We will grow older, join families, and raise new ones. Most of us will spend the rest of our lives working, and join the quest to find true happiness. Without the help and support of these significant people, and our hard work and determination, none of this would be possible.

Thank you for all of your help, and good luck to everyone. 
Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished faculty and administrators, friends and family, and, of course, the Ohio Connections Academy class of 2010: I would like to thank you for giving me the honor to speak on behalf of the class of 2010.

My fellow classmates, we’ve all made it through online high school. Not just any high school, but Ohio Connections Academy—a school that has given us the opportunity to reach our goals and maximum potential: to be the best that we could be. We were pioneers on the forefront of a new and innovative form of education, and we encountered many obstacles. We made it through semester and interim deadlines.

Along the way, we became independent and self-motivated students. Our teachers taught us how to write a research paper, apply the scientific method, and use the Pythagorean theorem. What I believe they taught us the most was to think creatively, have confidence in ourselves, be responsible individuals, have goals, and have the fortitude to achieve those goals. When our social studies teachers were teaching us about the past, they were opening our eyes to what our future could hold. When our English teachers were teaching us about other people’s writings, they were teaching us how to open our minds and write creatively and effectively. When our math teachers were teaching us about probabilities, they weren’t teaching us the number of times something could fail; they were teaching us that regardless of the circumstances, there is always the chance to succeed.

Many of you will go on to college; some of you will pursue the military; and some of you will start a new job or career. Whatever path you choose, I am confident that you will take the valuable lessons you have learned from OCA and be able to apply them to your life.

While OCA has taught us much, we must recognize that the most valuable lessons we have learned have been from our parents and family members. This past year, I was looking at an online list of job skills and realized…I learned many of these skills right in my own home. Some of the skills included effective communication, problem solving, advising, collaborating ideas, teaching/instructing/training, and, yes, even entertaining. Classmates, because of our unique circumstances, we were able to be around and learn from the most important people in our lives: our families. These skills will be invaluable for us. I would like to thank my parents for all of the life-lessons they have taught me. I would like to thank them for their constant love and support. I would also like to thank my sister for putting up with me for all these years and being my best friend. I hope sometime today, you will thank your families as well.

Now, life’s journey doesn’t always have a road map, and there is usually more than one way to get to the destination. When OCA took its first cautious steps seven years ago, it was a new and innovative school on the forefront of education. Now, the world is starting to look and say, “Wow, this really works!” It is our responsibility, as the class of 2010, to take this ingenuity out into the world—to be the world’s next pioneers and lead the way for those who follow. As Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “Do not go where the path may go; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.” Thank you, and congratulations to my fellow members of the class of 2010!
